**HyperKvasir: The Largest Gastrointestinal Dataset (Images)** is a dataset for instance segmentation, semantic segmentation, object detection, and classification tasks. It is used in the medical industry. 

The dataset consists of 111079 images with 2134 labeled objects belonging to 2 different classes including *polyp* and *polyp_bbox*.

Images in the HyperKvasir Images dataset have pixel-level instance segmentation and bounding box annotations. Due to the nature of the instance segmentation task, it can be automatically transformed into a semantic segmentation task (only one mask for every class). There are 110079 (99% of the total) unlabeled images (i.e. without annotations). There are 3 splits in the dataset: *unlabeled-images* (99417 images), *labeled-images* (10662 images), and *segmented-images* (1000 images). Alternatively, the dataset could be split into 2 GI tracts: ***lower-gi-tract*** (7210 images) and ***upper-gi-tract*** (3452 images), or into 4 categories of findings: ***anatomical-landmarks*** (4104 images), ***pathological-findings*** (2642 images), ***therapeutic-interventions*** (1991 images), and ***quality-of-mucosal-views*** (1925 images), or into 23 classification image sets: ***bbps-2-3*** (1148 images), ***polyps*** (1028 images), ***cecum*** (1009 images), ***dyed-lifted-polyps*** (1002 images), ***pylorus*** (999 images), ***dyed-resection-margins*** (989 images), ***z-line*** (932 images), ***retroflex-stomach*** (764 images), ***bbps-0-1*** (646 images), ***ulcerative-colitis-grade-2*** (443 images), ***esophagitis-a*** (403 images), ***retroflex-rectum*** (391 images), ***esophagitis-b-d*** (260 images), ***ulcerative-colitis-grade-1*** (201 images), ***ulcerative-colitis-grade-3*** (133 images), ***impacted-stool*** (131 images), ***barretts-short-segment*** (53 images), ***barretts*** (41 images), ***ulcerative-colitis-grade-0-1*** (35 images), ***ulcerative-colitis-grade-2-3*** (28 images), ***ulcerative-colitis-grade-1-2*** (11 images), ***ileum*** (9 images), and ***hemorrhoids*** (6 images). The dataset was released in 2020 by the NO-SW-AU joint research group.

Here are the visualized examples for the classes:

[Dataset classes](https://github.com/dataset-ninja/hyper-kvasir/raw/main/visualizations/classes_preview.webm)
